# Shantay

*Shantay* is a [permissively
licensed](https://github.com/apparebit/shantay/blob/boss/LICENSE), open-source,
Python-based command line tool for analyzing the European Commission's [DSA
transparency database](https://transparency.dsa.ec.europa.eu/). That database
collects the anonymized statements of reasons for online platforms' content
moderation decision. Even though the database is huge, almost 2 TB and growing,
*shantay* runs on consumer hardware. All you need is a USB drive, such as the 2
TB Samsung T7, that is large enough to store the full database and, for some
tasks, patience, as they may take a day, or two.

I've written [a blog post about my initial
impressions](https://apparebit.com/blog/2025/sashay-shantay) of the DSA
transparency database. Let's just say that, Brussels, we've got, uhm, problems
(plural)!


## 1. Getting Started

*Shantay*'s Python package is [distributed through
PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/shantay/). Hence, you can use a Python tool
runner such as [pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) or
[uvx](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/tools/) for executing *shantay* without
even installing it:

```bash
$ pipx shantay -h
```
or
```bash
$ uvx shantay -h
```

In either case, *shantay* will output its help message, which describes command
line options and tasks in detail. But to get you acquainted, here are some
choice examples.

The EU started operating the database on the 25th of September, 2023. To
download the daily releases for that year and determine their summary
statistics, execute:

```
$ uvx shantay --archive <directory> --last 2023-12-31 summarize
```

Except, you want to replace `<directory>` with the path to a directory suitable
for storing the complete database.

The previous command will run for quite a while, downloading and analyzing
release after release after release. Depending on your hardware, using more than
one process for downloading and analyzing the data may be faster. The following
invocation, for example, uses three worker processes for downloading and
analyzing data:

```
$ uvx shantay --archive <directory> --last 2023-12-31 --multiproc 3 summarize
```

Don't forget to replace `<directory>` with the actual path.

When running with parallel worker processes, *shantay*'s original process serves
as coordinator. Notably, it updates the status display on the console and writes
log entries to a file, by default `shantay.log` in the current working
directory.

Once *shantay* is done downloading and summarizing the daily releases for 2023,
you'll find a `db.parquet` file in the archive's root directory. It contains the
summary statistics at day-granularity. To visualize that same data, execute:

```
$ uvx shantay --archive <directory> visualize
```

Once finished, you'll find an
[`db.html`](https://apparebit.github.io/shantay/db.html) document with all
charts in the default staging directory `dsa-db-staging`. (The linked version
covers far more data.)

Alas, three months of data from the beginning of the DSA transparency database
aren't particularly satisfying. Shantay ships with a copy of the summary
statistics for the entire database. To visualize them, execute:

```
$ uvx shantay visualize
```

Now look at the [`db.html`](https://apparebit.github.io/shantay/db.html) again:
Much better!


## 2. Using Shantay

The `summarize` and `visualize` tasks cover almost all of Shantay's
functionality. Nonetheless, Shantay supports a few more tasks for fine-grained
control and data recovery. Here are all of them:

  - **download** makes sure that daily distributions are locally available,
    retrieving them as necessary. This task lets your prepare for future
    `--offline` operation by downloading archives as expediently as possible and
    not performing any other processing.

  - **distill** extracts a category-specific subset from daily distributions. It
    requires both the `--archive` and `--extract` directories. For a new extract
    directory, it also requires a `--category`. That category and other metadata
    are stored in `meta.json`.

  - **recover** scans the `--extract` directory to validate the files and
    restore (some of the) metadata in `meta.json`.

  - **summarize** collects summary statistics either for the full database or a
    category-specific subset, depending on whether `--archive` only (for the
    full database) or both `--archive` and `--extract` (for a subset) are
    specified. If you specify neither, Shantay materializes the builtin copy of
    the summary statistics in staging.

  - **info** prints helpful information about Shantay, key dependencies, the
    Python runtime, and operating system, as well as the `--archive` and
    `--extract` directories and their contents. If you specify neither, Shantay
    prints information about the builtin copy of the summary statistics.

  - **visualize** generates an HTML document that visualizes summary statistics.
    `--archive` and `--extract` determine the scope of the visualization, just
    as for `summarize`. If you specify neither, Shantay visualizes the builtin
    copy of the summary statistics. In addition to generating an HTML report,
    Shantay also saves all charts as SVG graphics.

Unless the `--offline` option is specified, the `distill` and `summarize` tasks
download daily distributions as needed.

Unless the date range is restricted with `--first` and `--last`, the `distill`
task also extracts category-specific data as needed. By default, the `--first`
date is 2023-09-25, the day the DSA transparency database became operational,
and the `--last` date is three days before todayâ€”one day to allow for the
Americas being a day behind Europe for several hours every day and another two
days to allow for some posting delay.

Summary statistics are stored in `db.parquet` for the full database and in a
file named after the category, such as `protection-of-minors.parquet`, for
category-specific data. The HTML documents follow the same naming convention.

Shantay's log distinguishes between `summarize-all`, `summarize-category`, and
`summarize-builtin` when identifying tasks. Furthermore, even when executing a
category-specific `summarize` task, Shantay's log distinguishes `distill` from
`summarize-category`. For multiprocessing, it schedules both tasks separately.


## 3. Organization of Storage

The screenshot below shows an example directory hierarchy under the `--extract`
root. It illustrates the directory levels discussed in 3.2 as well as the files
with digests and summary statistics discussed in 3.3.

![The extract root hierarchy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apparebit/shantay/boss/viz/screenshot/hierarchy.png)


### 3.1 Three Root Directories: Staging, Archive, Extract

*Shantay* distinguishes between three primary directories, `--staging` as
temporary storage, `--archive` for the original distributions, and `--extract`
for a category-specific subset:

  - **Staging** stores data currently being processed, e.g., by uncompressing,
    converting, and filtering it. You wouldn't be wrong if you called this
    directory *temp* or *tmp* instead. This directory must be on a fast, local
    file system; it should not be on an external disk, particularly not if the
    disk is connected with USB.
  - **Archive** stores the original, daily ZIP files and their SHA1 digests. It
    is treated as append-only storage and holds the ground truth. This directory
    must be on a large file system, e.g., 2 TB just about holds all data from
    2023-09-25 into May 2025. This directory may be on an external drive (such
    as the already mentioned T7).
  - **Extract** stores parquet files with a (much) smaller subset of the
    database. Like *archive*, *extract* is treated as append-only storage.
    Unlike *archive*, which is unique, different runs of *shantay* may use
    different *extract* directories representing different subsets of the
    database.


### 3.2 Three Levels of Nested Directories: Year, Month, Day

Under the three root directories, *shantay* arranges files into a hierarchy of
directories, e.g., resulting in paths like
`2025/03/14/2025-03-14-00000.parquet`. The top level is named for years,
followed by two-digit months one level down, followed by two-digit days another
level down. Finally, daily archive files have their original names, whereas
files with category-specific data are named after the date and a zero-based
five-digit index (as illustrated earlier in this paragraph).

For the extract root, *shantay* maintains a per-day digest file named
`sha256.txt`. It contains the SHA-256 digests for every parquet file in the
directory: Each line contains one hexadecimal ASCII digest, a space,and the
file's name.


### 3.3 Summary Statistics

In addition to yearly directories, *shantay* also stores the following two files
inside root directories.

  - A JSON file named after the category, e.g., `protection-of-minors.json`
    contains an object with the `category` used for selecting the data extract
    and some statistics about `releases`. `batch_count` must be the number of
    daily data files and `sha256` must be the (recursive) digest of the digests
    in the `sha256.txt` file.

  - `db.parquet` contains the summary statistics about the full database.
    Statistics for category-specific subsets are named after their categories.
    Each file basically is a non-tidy, long data frame that uses up to seven
    columns for identifying variables and up to four columns for identifying
    values. While an encoding with fewer columns is eminently feasible, the
    schema is optimized for being easy to work with (e.g., aggregations are
    trivial) and compact to store (e.g., a column with mostly nulls requires
    almost no space).

    The individual columns are:

      - `start_date` and `end_date` denote the date coverage of a row.
      - `tag` is the category for filtered source data.
      - `platform` is the online platform making the disclosures.
      - `column` is the original transparency database column, with a few
        virtual column names added.
      - `entity` describes the metric contained in that row.
      - `variant` captures values from the original database, encoded as a very
        large enumeration.
      - `text` does the same for transparency database columns with arbitrary
        text.
      - `count`, `min`, `mean`, and `max` contain the eponymous descriptive
        statistics.

    If `mean` contains a value, then `count` also contains a value, thus
    enabling correct aggregation with a weighted average.


## 4. Big Data in the Small

Unlike most big data tools, Shantay is designed to run on consumer-level
hardware, e.g., a reasonably fast laptop or desktop with an external flash
drive, such as the Samsung T7, will do. In fact, that's my own setup: My primary
development machine is a four-year-old x86 iMac and all data is stored on a 2 TB
Samsung driveâ€”though I'll have to upgrade to the next larger size soon enough.

Shantay targets consumer-level hardware because transparency as an
accountability mechanism mustn't be limited to people who have access to compute
clusters, whether locally or in the cloud. No, for a transparency database to be
effective, anyone with a reasonable computer should be able to do their own
analysis.

That seeming limitation also is a blessing in disguise. Notably, the [EU's
official tool](https://code.europa.eu/dsa/transparency-database/dsa-tdb) uses
the [Apache Spark engine](https://spark.apache.org), which has excellent
scalability but also very high resource requirements for every cluster node. In
other words, while the EU's tool does run on individual machines, it also runs
very slowly. In contrast, Shantay builds on the [Pola.rs](https://pola.rs) data
frame library, which is much simpler and faster when running on a single
computer. In addition, Shantay makes the most of available resources and
supports parallel execution across a (small) number of processes, which does
make a difference in my experience.

----

(C) 2025 by Robert Grimm. The Python source code in this repository has been
released as open source under the [Apache
2.0](https://github.com/apparebit/shantay/blob/boss/LICENSE) license.
