# Functional Source License, Version 1.1, Apache 2.0 Future License

## Abbreviation

FSL-1.1-Apache-2.0

## Notice

Copyright 2024 Alex Dong

## Terms and Conditions

### Licensor ("We")

The party offering the Software under these Terms and Conditions.

### The Software

The "Software" is each version of the software that we make available under
these Terms and Conditions, as indicated by our inclusion of these Terms and
Conditions with the Software.

### License Grant

Subject to your compliance with this License Grant and the Patents,
Redistribution and Trademark clauses below, we hereby grant you the right to
use, copy, modify, create derivative works, publicly perform, publicly display
and redistribute the Software for any Permitted Purpose identified below.

### Permitted Purpose

A Permitted Purpose is any purpose other than a Competing Use. A Competing Use
means making the Software available to others in a commercial product or
service that:

1. substitutes for the Software;

2. substitutes for any other product or service we offer using the Software
   that exists as of the date we make the Software available; or

3. offers the same or substantially similar functionality as the Software.

Permitted Purposes specifically include using the Software:

1. for your internal use and access;

2. for non-commercial education;

3. for non-commercial research; and

4. in connection with professional services that you provide to a licensee
   using the Software in accordance with these Terms and Conditions.

### Patents

To the extent your use for a Permitted Purpose would necessarily infringe our
patents, the license grant above includes a license under our patents. If you
make a claim against any party that the Software infringes or contributes to
the infringement of any patent, then your patent license to the Software ends
immediately.

### Redistribution

The Terms and Conditions apply to all copies, modifications and derivatives of
the Software.

If you redistribute any copies, modifications or derivatives of the Software,
you must include a copy of these Terms and Conditions and make clear that the
Terms and Conditions apply to those copies, modifications or derivatives.

### Disclaimer

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. YOU
ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ASSOCIATED WITH YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE. SOME
JURISDICTIONS MAY NOT ALLOW THE FOREGOING DISCLAIMERS, SO SOME OF THESE
DISCLAIMERS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

### Limitation of Liability

TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL WE BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF PROFITS, BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) WHETHER
BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF
WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. OUR LIABILITY FOR
DAMAGES OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE LIMITED
TO $100 USD. SOME JURISDICTIONS MAY NOT ALLOW THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, SO
SOME OF THESE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

### Term and Termination

This License Grant will continue unless and until terminated by us or you as
set forth below.

Your license and any rights under this License Grant will terminate
immediately without notice if you violate any of the terms and conditions of
this License Grant. Upon termination, you agree to immediately cease using and
distributing the Software.

We may terminate this License Grant, without cause, by providing 30 days
written notice.

Upon any termination of this License Grant, the Disclaimer and Limitation of
Liability clauses will survive such termination.

### Future License

On the second anniversary of our first making the Software available under
these Terms and Conditions, the Software will be made available under the
terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.

### Miscellaneous

This License Grant is the entire agreement between you and us concerning the
Software. It may only be modified by written agreement signed by both you and
us.

If any provision of this License Grant is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable.

The failure of either you or us to enforce any provision of this License Grant
shall not constitute a waiver of future enforcement of that or any other
provision.